---
layout: post
title: How to use everything to build verification environments
---
Traditionally, training LLMs involves using data to train the model to predict the next token.

We could make better use of the same data. The same data can be used to build various verification environments which can improve the LLM further.



# You can verify with the correct objective

You have a math problem and a solution you consider correct.

> There exists a unique increasing geometric sequence of five 2-digit positive integers. What is their sum?

The correct answer is 211. [^1] With a correct objective, you can train models to generate reasoning chains that reach the right answer while avoiding paths that lead to wrong answers. This is how you can use a correct objective to build a verification environment.

[^1]: A longer writeup on this example is available [here](https://www.quora.com/What-is-reinforcement-fine-tuning/answer/Tong-Hui-Kang-1).




# You can verify with incomplete data

You can build a verification environment even if there isn't a single correct objective.

Someone sought comments on their resume in a [forum](https://www.reddit.com/r/EngineeringResumes/comments/1mbzxsf/student_this_resume_got_me_10_interviews_and_1/). The request got some replies.

However, the comments are not complete. Not everything is nitpicked [^3].

[^3]: For example - I would nitpick "treatment efficiency of 15%" is ambiguous. When reading resumes, I read the first bullet point of the topmost experience. I have general comments [here](https://blog.huikang.dev/2022/10/17/resume-advice.html).

Unlike the math problem, there isn't one correct answer. There are many correct answers, some more valuable than the others. The most upvoted response is not necessarily the complete solution.

However, we can still build a verification environment, even if the data is incomplete. We can collate the individual responses. We could also collate external resources not found in the forum post - the forum has a [wiki](https://www.reddit.com/r/EngineeringResumes/wiki/index/) on how to craft your resume. The forum responses, external data, and general instructions can be used to build a rubric to score responses.

We can now score responses generated by the LLM. By training the LLM on the verification environment, we can ensure that the LLM is able to produce comprehensive and concise comments on your resume.




# You can verify with intermediate objectives


Consider the following Problem 6 of the International Mathematical Olympiad.

> Consider a 2025 x 2025 grid of unit squares. Matilda wishes to place on the grid some rectangular tiles, possibly of different sizes, such that each side of every tile lies on a grid line and every unit square is covered by at most one tile.  
> 
> Determine the minimum number of tiles Matilda needs to place so that each row and each column of the grid has exactly one unit square that is not covered by any tile.

Naively, you would think of a solution like this, that requires $2 n - 2$ tiles.

```
⬜ 🟩 🟩 🟩
🟩 ⬜ 🟥 🟥
🟥 🟥 ⬜ 🟩
🟩 🟩 🟩 ⬜
```

However, [optimal](https://web.evanchen.cc/exams/IMO-2025-notes.pdf) constructions would use $(n-1)^2 + 4(n-1)$ tiles, and look something like this [^4]

[^4]: For the purposes of illustrating how to verify with intermediate objectives, we ignore the requirement to prove the lower bound.

For 4 × 4

```
🟥 ⬜ 🟥 🟥
🟥 🟩 🟩 ⬜
⬜ 🟩 🟩 🟥
🟥 🟥 ⬜ 🟥
```

For 9 × 9

```
🟩 🟩 ⬜ 🟩 🟩 🟩 🟥 🟥 🟥
🟩 🟩 🟥 🟥 🟥 ⬜ 🟥 🟥 🟥
🟩 🟩 🟥 🟥 🟥 🟩 🟩 🟩 ⬜
🟥 ⬜ 🟥 🟥 🟥 🟩 🟩 🟩 🟥
🟥 🟩 🟩 🟩 ⬜ 🟩 🟩 🟩 🟥
🟥 🟩 🟩 🟩 🟥 🟥 🟥 ⬜ 🟥
⬜ 🟩 🟩 🟩 🟥 🟥 🟥 🟩 🟩
🟥 🟥 🟥 ⬜ 🟥 🟥 🟥 🟩 🟩
🟥 🟥 🟥 🟩 🟩 🟩 ⬜ 🟩 🟩
```

To make the best use of this data, we should not merely award full credit for producing the correct construction, and no credit for not producing the correct construction.

Even though the grading rubric does not provide partial credit, we should still give credit for the following observations

- 2025 is a perfect square (45 × 45)
- You can do better than $2 n - 2$ tiles
- Optimal construction for 4 × 4 grid
- Optimal construction for 9 × 9 grid
- Optimal construction for 16 × 16 grid

By building a verification environment that allows for intermediate objectives, we can reward the model for finding intermediate results, making it more likely to eventually generate and learn the full solution. This approach should improve the model's ability to find both intermediate steps and complete solutions on new problems.

 


We should make use of the data we have to build verification environments with intermediate objectives.





# You can verify with incorrect data

You are given my Codeforces solutions that are [wrong](https://codeforces.com/submissions/huikang). Instead of discarding these solutions, you can use my solution to build a verification environment.

This is how you can use my data to implement more verifiable tasks

- Determining whether my solution is wrong. My solution may look correct, but there is actually something wrong in it. An LLM that is good at coding should be able to determine whether my solution is wrong.
- Changing the minimum amount of code to make my solution pass.
- Finding a test case where my solution will fail.

By training on incorrect data, you improve the LLM's ability to identify mistakes and recover from mistakes.



# Scaling verification

To scale verification, there are multiple processes that could be automated.

- Obtaining data (obtaining the math problems and the solutions)
- Creating rubrics from the data (given a math problem and its solution, generate the rubrics)
- Validating the rubrics from the data (ensuring the rubrics to score the math problem make sense)
- Designing rubrics for novel data types (how do you verify whether a piece of writing is good)
- Validating rubrics for novel data types (do the rubrics to verify good writing make sense)

By scaling verification, we can maximize how much the LLM can learn from the same piece of data.


